---
title: "Loopapalooza: Investigating Limits of Loop-Level Parallelism with a Compiler-Driven Approach."
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/ispass_2021
excerpt: ''
date: 28-03-2021
venue: '2021 IEEE International Symposium on Performance Analysis of Systems and Software (ISPASS)'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9408183'
---
Improving sequential performance of out-of-order processors is becoming harder. Further improvements may require exploitation of thread-level parallelism, on top of ILP, as it can provide better design and performance scaling. Unfortunately, previous “speculative multithreading” approaches have shown small gains and/or incur a high cost, particularly for general-purpose, non-numeric applications. This paper investigates the fundamental limits to sequential performance scaling through speculative multithreading - we present an LLVM compiler-driven limit study framework that investigates the limits of loop-level parallelism at run-time. This new study of loop-level parallelism demonstrates the potential for up to 4.6x and 7.2x geometric mean speedup on SpecINT2000 and SpecINT2006. Thanks to the additional consideration of recent parallelization schemes, such as generalized DOACROSS (HELIX), these potential speedups are higher than reported by previous state-of-the-art limit studies. Our analysis further categorizes the various inter-thread dependencies and ordering constraints with respect to the specific architectural choices and techniques each would require for implementation. We then evaluate the relative importance of each such constraint for different application (benchmark) types, and provide insight into the cost/benefit trade-offs when designing systems for efficiently implementing speculative multithreading. Such insights should help the design of bespoke systems for speculative multithreading while achieving better speedups, efficiency, and scaling, relative to typical approaches which, thus far, have relied upon adapting conventional multi-core systems. Our analysis further categorizes the various inter-thread dependencies and ordering constraints with respect to the specific architectural choices and techniques each would require for implementation. We then evaluate the relative importance of each such constraint for different application (benchmark) types, and provide insight into the cost/benefit trade-offs when designing systems for efficiently implementing speculative multithreading. Such insights should help the design of bespoke systems for speculative multithreading while achieving better speedups, efficiency, and scaling, relative to typical approaches which, thus far, have relied upon adapting conventional multi-core systems.

[Download Preprint](https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/en/publications/loopapalooza-investigating-limits-of-looplevel-parallelism-with-a-compilerdriven-approach(12bca3fa-1605-48f9-b42d-19ac078ab570).html)

[Find it on IEEXplore](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9408183)
